[tplink] Update docs: Local access possible again (#22517)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/tplink.markdown

The `tplink` integration allows you to control your [TP-Link Smart Home Devices](https://www.tp-link.com/kasa-smart/) such as plugs, power strips, wall switches and bulbs.

> You need to provision your newly purchased device to connect to your network before it can be added via the integration. This can be done either by using [kasa command-line tool](https://python-kasa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cli.html#provisioning) or by adding it to the official Kasa app before trying to add them to Home Assistant. If you use the app, do not upgrade the firmware if it presents the option to avoid blocking the local access by potential firmware updates.

Reviewer: Please do not remove this as some people may want to provision their devices without the official app. I think adding a note about the FAQ entry & that newer models can also be converted to local operation would be fine.

Author: Okay, I'll incorporate this at the end when I mention the older firmware - as I'm not sure that the tool works with the latest firmware.

> TP-Link offers an [FAQ](https://www.tp-link.com/us/support/faq/2707/) how to provision your newly purchased devices. The devices won't connect to the TP-Link cloud and become locally controllable afterwards. If you already own devices which are connected to the cloud, you can convert them from TP-Link Cloud operated to local operation as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TP-Link offers an [FAQ](https://www.tp-link.com/us/support/faq/2707/) on how to provision your newly purchased devices. The devices won't connect to the TP-Link cloud and become locally controllable afterward. If you already own devices that are connected to the cloud, you can convert them from TP-Link Cloud operated to local operation as well.
```

> Note: Previously TP-Link had cut the local access via a firmware update to their devices. This is no longer the case. SOme devices not listed here as supported might still work with local control, if the old which supported local control is not updated.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the past more TP-Link used to support local access but they removed this support. If your old device is on older firmware it can still be controlled locally by Home Assistant.
```

> Note: Previously TP-Link had cut the local access via a firmware update to their devices. This is no longer the case. SOme devices not listed here as supported might still work with local control, if the old which supported local control is not updated.

Reviewer: So far I have heard that only a very specific selection of devices (UK versions of some HS* models) are affected.

Has there been a change in that?

Reviewer: What probably should be done is to update the alert content to clarify this. I think I had seen an issue about its scary wording even when most of the users are not affected by locked down firmwares (at least that I know of).

Author: > What probably should be done is to update the alert content to clarify this.

Well, I first updates the alert content, which was rejected by @balloob who encouraged to update this in the docs.

Would you mind discussing this with @balloob directly – if the docs or the alert should be updated? :)

Author: If you find more recent info about the distribution of the “bad” firmware, feel free to add this info. I cannot confirm or deny this.

> In the past more TP-Link used to support local access but they removed this support. If your old device is on older firmware it can still be controlled locally by Home Assistant. In this case you need to provision your newly purchased device to connect to your network before it can be added via the integration. This can be done by using the [kasa command-line tool](https://python-kasa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cli.html#provisioning).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the past, more TP-Link used to support local access but they removed this support. If your old device is on older firmware it can still be controlled locally by Home Assistant. In this case, you need to provision your newly purchased device to connect to your network before it can be added via the integration. This can be done by using the [kasa command-line tool](https://python-kasa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cli.html#provisioning).
```

> In the past more TP-Link used to support local access but they removed this support. If your old device is on older firmware it can still be controlled locally by Home Assistant. In this case you need to provision your newly purchased device to connect to your network before it can be added via the integration. This can be done by using the [kasa command-line tool](https://python-kasa.readthedocs.io/en/latest/cli.html#provisioning).

Reviewer: I don't agree with the wording, afaik, most of the available devices still support local controls no matter how they are provisioned.

@bdraco, if I'm not mistaken you have some newer devices that work still just fine?

Reviewer 4: I have yet to find a device sold in the US that doesn't work just fine out of box without having to go through [this](https://www.tp-link.com/us/support/faq/2707/)

Author: @bdraco thanks a lot for the feedback, I'll update the PR to reflect that!

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

## TP-Link Kasa Device Overview

### Plugs

> | Model Number     | Support by Home Assistant | Support by TP-Link's 'local only mode'     | Note                                     |

Reviewer 2: Please avoid tables, these are nearly impossible to view nicely on a mobile device.

Author: What would you recommend as an alternative formatting?

Reviewer 2: Anything but tables :)

Author: I mean, the file already contains tables plus they really don't look *that* bad. I'm not sure there's a cleaner way to display this amount of information.

You're sure that's not just a personal preference? 🤔 

![IMG_20220502_133803](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/614929/166227901-f9d8d8c0-c3a0-49ba-b74d-25e072bc4192.jpg)

Reviewer 2: We generally ask to avoid those, I think it is weird to make an exception in this case.

Thanks 👍

Author: Ah okay - didn't know this. Is there a style guideline or something like that for the docs? :)

Author: I was looking through the other integrations to see how this is done for other pages, and there are quite a few using tables as well:

- yeelight
- xiaomi_miio
- philips_js
- zha

Feels more like the norm than an exception :)

Reviewer 2: Please remove the use of tables as much as possible.

Reviewer 4: I think the simplest way to remove the tables is to not enumerate which devices support local only mode and instead link to Tplink's article.  We really don't want to get issue reports for incorrect documentation because we have copied tplink's incorrect documentation (I know at least the KL420 requires a kasa account even though their docs don't mention that).  In short we only need to know what Home Assistant supports for Home Assistant's documentation.

AFAICT all the devices that removed the local api when linking to cloud have the option to restore it by following the procedure

|------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| HS100            | ✅                        | ✅                                         |                                          |
| HS103            | ✅                        | ✅                                         |                                          |
| HS105            | ✅                        | ✅                                         |                                          |
| HS110            | ✅                        | ✅                                         | supports consumption sensors             |

> | KP100            | ❓                        | ✅                                         |                                          |

Reviewer 4: These work.  I have a few of these.  I'll add fixtures for them to `python-kasa` when I get a chance.

Reviewer 4: https://github.com/python-kasa/python-kasa/pull/343

| KP200            | ✅                        | ❌                                         | indoor 2-outlet                          |
| KP303            | ✅                        | ❌                                         | 3-outlet                                 |
| KP400            | ✅                        | ❌                                         | outdoor 2-outlet                         |

### Wall Switches

| Model Number     | Support by Home Assistant | Support by TP-Link's 'local only mode'     | Note                                     |
|------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| ES10             | ❓                        | ✅                                         |                                          |
| HS200            | ✅                        | ✅                                         |                                          |
| HS210            | ✅                        | ❌                                         |                                          |

> | HS210KIT         | ❓                        | ❌                                         |                                          |

Reviewer 4: This is the same as the HS210, we can drop this line

| HS220            | ✅                        | ❌                                         | acts as a light                          |

### Bulbs

| Model Number     | Support by Home Assistant | Support by TP-Link's 'local only mode'     | Note                                     |
|------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| KB130            | ✅                        | ❓ <!-- not mentioned as of 2022-05-01 --> |                                          |
| KL50             | ❓                        | ✅                                         |                                          |

> | KL60             | ❓                        | ✅                                         |                                          |

Reviewer 4: These work. There are test fixtures for them here

https://github.com/python-kasa/python-kasa/tree/master/kasa/tests/fixtures

| LB120            | ✅                        | ✅ <!-- whole series should to work -->    |                                          |
| LB130            | ✅                        | ✅ <!-- whole series should to work -->    |                                          |
| LB230            | ✅                        | ✅ <!-- whole series should to work -->    |                                          |

### Light Strips

| Model Number     | Support by Home Assistant | Support by TP-Link's 'local only mode'     | Note                                     |
|------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| KL400            | ✅                        | ❓ <!-- not mentioned as of 2022-05-01 --> |                                          |
| KL420            | ✅                        | ❓ <!-- not mentioned as of 2022-05-01 --> |                                          |
| KL430            | ✅                        | ❌                                         |                                          |

> | KL430E           | ❓                        | ❌                                         |                                          |

Reviewer 4: Let's not list models we don't know if they work.

| RE270            | ❓                        | ✅                                         |                                          |
| RE370            | ❓                        | ✅                                         |                                          |
| RE350K           | ❓                        | ✅                                         |                                          |

### Cameras

| Model Number     | Support by Home Assistant | Support by TP-Link's 'local only mode'     | Note                                     |
|------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|
| All Kasa cameras | ❓                        | ❌ <!-- as of 2022-05-01               --> |                                          |

### Smart Routers

| Model Number     | Support by Home Assistant | Support by TP-Link's 'local only mode'     | Note                                     |
|------------------|---------------------------|--------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|

> | SR20             | ❓                        | ❌                                         |                                          |

Reviewer 4: None of these are supported.  We should say all Range Extenders, Cameras, and Smart Routers are not supported instead of listing them out.

- HS103
- HS105
- HS110 (supports consumption sensors)
- KP105 (is not mentioned in the TP-Link FAQ as working/not working)
- KP115 (supports consumption sensors)

### Strip (Multi-Plug)

> <!-- - HS107 (indoor 2-outlet) # Does not support local control according to TP-Link FAQ (as of date 2022-04-25) -->

Reviewer: Not worth changing as these are based on what users have reported to be functioning even when tplink's docs / official stance disagree.

Author: Alright, I made a table to reflect both infos to give the users a chance to get an overview :)

Thanks!
